> First post on the HomeLab Series where we discuss pros and cons about creating and maintaining a home server.

## Why?

The first question to any project is always why? 

And I have no answer for that. There is absolutely no reason why you should do this. There are companies and people way more experienced that you and me out there who can do it much better and much faster. But, as always, it is about the journey; the destination rarely matters. This is not a glamorous process nor is it eventful. Your server will probably look like [this](https://www.omegaweb.com/why-its-not-worth-it-to-run-a-home-server-for-web-hosting/).

It’s not pretty and you’ll never want to look at it. (That picture is form a post on Omega Web titled “Why It’s Not Worth It To Run a Home Server For Web Hosting”. I’d advise you to check it out with the link under the picture. They bring up a good pint about bandwidth and your own experience outside of the website you want to host.) But some people, like me, are masochist, and want to torture themselves. They have nothing better to do with their lives and need to find a hobby. You’ll never have people to use the things you create and you’ll get hacked many times throughout. You are essentially opening up your internet and local network to outside attacks if you are not careful. It’s impossible to find good things that just work and you’ll have to tweak things no matter what the random 2006 tutorial says to do. Of course, there are other reasons as well.


## Privacy

Self hosting allows you to control your own data, how it is used, and where to goes. If you are someone who has privacy concerns, learning to self host may be a good option to put your mind at ease. If done right, the server can be setup and forget. Bitwarden, an open source password manager, allows you to self host for true privacy. There are other platforms alternatives such as Cloud and Palet for cloud sync drives and notes without worrying about selling your data to third parties. However, this is also a point of target for hackers who truly want your information. With no knowledge of security on the wide range of platform types that one might use, it is easy for a hacker to find a door to access everything you’ve stored on there. But for the normal user who are worried about everyday privacy, this might be a good alternative if careful.

## Knowledge

Some people just want to learn. Going through what it takes to get your own services up and useable onto the internet is a great way to learn a wide range of IT skills whether it be for school, work, or just the satisfaction of building something yourself. These days, there are tones of free open source software that you can use to easily setup without the manual code writing and labor. It learning the material without doing the work, best of both worlds. Many home servers now use Docker. You can think of it as a wrapper but instead of code, it’s for a computer. The idea behind it is “this app works on my machine so I’ll just give you my machine to run the app with”. HT takes little to set up and you can have things like WordPress and Samba working in minutes, all while learning about networking and web development.

## Convenience

People also want to play games. And having your own servers makes it possible to run Minecraft, Steam caches, CS:GO servers, and much more. You are God when you play with friends cause you literally run that world. It is convenient, you don’t have to pay or wait in queues for servers, and you control every aspect of it. This allows for infinite expansion and creation on your end. Outside of games, it gives you a dedicated computer to run things that would otherwise clog up your daily driver. Rendering videos? Put that to your servers so you can go relax and watch YouTube videos. Torrenting something and clogging up your computer’s Wifi capabilities? Push that to the server and enjoy no slowdown of your network transfers. The possibilities with a dedicated computer running 24/7 is only as big as your imagination. Of course, your electricity bill will go up, but a small price to pay for salvation.

## Experience

Coming full circle, some people are just masochist and want to torture themselves. The experience is anything but pleasant. You will be frustrated. You will loose all your hair. You will find your afternoons disappear as your thighs get bigger and bigger from sitting down all day. You will spend countless hours customizing your terminal and another eternity learning Vim. You will find a community that is both supportive and toxic. You will get trapped here with no way to leave. You will realize how naive your friends are to the internet and how ungrateful they are for the countless man-hours dedicated to making the internet as convenient as it is today. You will find the urge to correct people about the slightest differences and when you realize all of this, it’ll be too late to turn back ever again.

But after all of that, you are sill here, ready and waiting, then I welcome you. You have been warned, and this contract will be spiritually binding. Let’s get started.

## What This Series Will Be:

This series will cover the topic that I find to be in the best order. Each post will have no connection with the previous nor will be necessary for the next. The order is just what I think the natural progression should be and easiest to follow with building skill levels. You can comment anything you want to see on any of these posts and I will try to put them in at times. You can jump to any program, application, topic, or post that you want to learn and there will be nothing stopping you. The only depending variable is the OS. I will be using Ubuntu throughout as this is the OS I believe suits best for beginners and home servers. Many will argue for Cent OS and the countless flavors of Linux but those I believe are for more advanced users and many even enterprise users, who probity aren’t reading a bad blog site for tutorials. I will also not be using Windows or MacOS for their limitation and extra bloatware from the persecutive of a server. If you are using something other than Ubuntu, a quick google search will be enough to learn the slight differ nations in download and setup. The concepts will be the same and we will be answers questions only on Ubuntu machines. Also, this blog will not be regularly updated as I am human as well. Topics will be added as seen fit with my schedule and availability, as well as the demand from the public (which shouldn’t be a lot). With housekeeping out of the way, it’s time to for the first topic.